# Easy Money Basics

**Status**: Pending

## Context

There are a lot of tools around accounting and budgeting. On the command line
there's Ledger (ledger-cli) and on the front end there's GnuCash, KMoney, and
probably a jillion other free tools, and then in the paid world there's
Quicken/Quickbooks, and many others. There are tools like Mint and YNAB that
are probably good for some people.

Most of these operate on the principle of double-entry bookkeeping, which is
fine for corporations where people are paid to handle the accounting. For
normal people this is *awful*.

We want to fix this by ignoring all of those terms that nobody cares about, and
mapping them into things that people *do* care about. Specifically, you have
goals from which you spend money, money that comes in, and money that goes out.

Behind the scenes we'll probably store these in a ledger-cli format because
it's pretty powerful, and also we want folks using ledger to be able to use
Easy Money very simply. One *huge* factor here is that we deffo want to be
able to easily import data from .csv files (and more) that contain folks'
financial transactions. Because let's face it - doing finances is boring but
pushing a button is easy. It would be very nice if we could (optionally) use
Selenium or something to automatically login and import people's financial data
-- so, they would be able to pull stuff in with some frequency for instance.

To make things simple to access initially, we're going to built a text UI - but
there's 100% no reason that people wouldn't be able to host this on their own
webserver or what have you.

Because of this, we are going to have a main class (Money) that's just a
collection of all the transactions you have. In other words - it represents
your money. What you have, what you've spent, and what you want to spend. It
might be a terrible name but right now it's the only one I've got.

With your Money you need to be able to add goals, which are either saved over
time or completely funded. If money has been spent from a goal, then we'll want
to track that/link that. I'm not entirely sure what it looks like for things to
be spent from a goal and funding over time -- if I save $500 for tires and
spend $400... that goal shouldn't be like "j/k, lol, now you need to save
$500+$400".


## Consequences

The result of all of this is that things should be pretty awesome?
